Local Bot API servers and DC locations (#1000)
grammyjs/website: site/docs/guide/api.md

Telegram bots communicate with the Telegram servers via HTTP requests.
The Telegram Bot API is the specification of this interface, i.e. a [long list](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api) of methods and data types, commonly called a reference.
It defines everything that Telegram bots can do.
You can find it linked under the Resources tab in the Telegram section.

The setup can be visualized like this:

```asciiart:no-line-numbers
your grammY bot <———HTTP———> Bot API <———MTProto———> Telegram
```

In words: when your bot sends a message, it will be sent as an HTTP request to a _Bot API server_.
This server is hosted at `api.telegram.org`.
It will translate the request to Telegram's native protocol called MTProto, and send a request to the Telegram backend which takes care of sending the message to the user.

> 

Author: I know that I am simplifying to the point of obnoxiousness, but I am trying to get across that the Bot API server is just an intermediate service and not the thing that actually stores the chats. Would you add a sentence that admits this simplification, or rather rephrase this part entirely? If so, how?

Analogously, whenever a user responds, the inverse path is taken.

When you run your bot, you need to decide how the updates should be sent across the HTTP connection.

> This can be done with [long polling or webhooks](./deployment-types.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be done with [long polling or webhooks](./deployment-types).
```

You can also host the Bot API server yourself.
This is mainly useful to send large files, or to decrease latency.

## Calling the Bot API

The Bot API is what defines what bots can and cannot do.
Every single method of the Bot API has an equivalent in grammY, and we make sure to always keep the library in sync with the latest and greatest features for bots.

> Example: `sendMessage` in the [Telegram Bot API Reference](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#sendmessage) and in the [grammY API Reference](/ref/core/Api#sendMessage).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Example: `sendMessage` in the [Telegram Bot API Reference](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#sendmessage) and in the [grammY API Reference](/ref/core/Api#sendmessage).
```

const bot = new Bot("");

async function sendHelloTo12345() {
  // Send a message to 12345.
  await bot.api.sendMessage(12345, "Hello!");

  // Send a message and store the response, which contains info about the sent message.
  const sentMessage = await bot.api.sendMessage(12345, "Hello again!");
  console.log(sentMessage.message_id);

  // Send a message without the `bot` object.
  const api = new Api(""); // <-- put your bot token between the ""
  await api.sendMessage(12345, "Yo!");
}
```

```ts [Deno]
import { Api, Bot } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy/mod.ts";

const bot = new Bot("");

async function sendHelloTo12345() {
  // Send a message to 12345.
  await bot.api.sendMessage(12345, "Hello!");

  // Send a message and store the response, which contains info about the sent message.
  const sentMessage = await bot.api.sendMessage(12345, "Hello again!");
  console.log(sentMessage.message_id);

  // Send a message without the `bot` object.
  const api = new Api(""); // <-- put your bot token between the ""
  await api.sendMessage(12345, "Yo!");
}
```

:::

> Note that `bot.api` is simply an instance of `Api` that is pre-constructed for you for convenience.

> > Note also that if you have access to a context object (i.e. you are inside a message handler), it is always preferable to call `ctx.api` or one the [available actions](./context.md#available-actions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note also that if you have access to a context object (i.e. you are inside a message handler), it is always preferable to call `ctx.api` or one the [available actions](./context#available-actions).
```

> > Note also that if you have access to a context object (i.e. you are inside a message handler), it is always preferable to call `ctx.api` or one the [available actions](./context.md#available-actions)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Note also that if you have access to a context object (i.e. you are inside a message handler), it is always preferable to call `ctx.api` or one the [available actions](./context.md#available-actions).
```

```

Basically, all parameters of the function signature are merged with the options object when you use the raw API.

## Choosing a Data Center Location

> [Skip](./filter-queries) the rest of the page if you are just getting started.

If you want to reduce the networking latency of your bot, it matters where you host it.

The Bot API server behind `api.telegram.org` is hosted in Amsterdam in the Netherlands.
Therefore, the best location to run your bot is Amsterdam.

::: tip Hosting Comparison
You may be interested in our [comparison on hosting providers](../hosting/comparison#comparison-tables).
:::

However, there might be an even better place to run your bot, although this takes significantly more effort.

[Remember](#general-information) that the Bot API server does not actually contain your bot.

> It only relays requests, translates between HTTP and MTProto, and so on.

Reviewer 3: Ditto

Author: Ditto

> The Bot API server may be in Amsterdam, but the Telegram servers are distributed across three locations: Amsterdam, Miami, and Singapore.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Bot API server may be in Amsterdam, but the Telegram servers are distributed across three different locations:

- Amsterdam, Netherlands
- Miami, Florida, United States
- Singapore
```

Feel free to ignore. Mainly suggesting that because one might not know where Miami is at a glance.

Author: I was unsure if we should do it, but now that I see it, I like it

Thus, when the Bot API server sends a request to the Telegram servers, it may have to send data halfway around the globe.
Whether or not this happens depends on the data center of the bot itself.
The data center of the bot is the same data center as for the user who created the bot.
The data center of a user depends on many factors, including the location of the user.

Hence, this is what you can do if you want to reduce the latency even further.

1. Contact [@where_is_my_dc_bot](https://t.me/where_is_my_dc_bot) and send a file that was uploaded with your own account.
   It will tell you the location of your user account.

>    This is also the location of your bot.

Reviewer 3: We said otherwise

Author: What do you mean?

Reviewer 3: ![image](https://github.com/grammyjs/website/assets/49933115/2106f253-b94a-4028-a10b-30dd97007241)

Reviewer 3: ![image](https://github.com/grammyjs/website/assets/49933115/c679bd63-2081-4961-888e-9df3b71a1ef0)

Author: I don't understand what you're trying to say. It's still the case that if you create a bot, it will default to residing in the same DC as your user account, so that's the reasonable thing to document. What are you suggesting?

Reviewer 4: @KnorpelSenf, @roj1512, is this question considered closed or what?

Author: I don't know what the question is so I'll leave this to @roj1512 :D

Reviewer 3: Resolve.

3. Buy a [VPS](../hosting/comparison#vps) in the location of your data center.
4. [Run a local Bot API server](#running-a-local-bot-api-server) on that VPS.
5. Host your bot in the same location as your data center.

That way, each request will only travel the shortest possible distance between Telegram and your bot.

## Running a Local Bot API Server

There are two main advantages to running your own Bot API server.

1. Your bot can send and receive large files.
2. Your bot might have reduced networking delays (see [above](#choosing-a-data-center-location)).

> Other minor advantages are listed [here](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#using-a-local-bot-api-server).

You must run the Bot API server on a VPS.
It will crash or drop messages if you try to run it somewhere else.

You should also compile the Bot API server from scratch.
It is helpful if you are experienced in compiling large C++ projects, but if you aren't, then you can simply copy the build instructions and hope that they work.

**The easiest way to run the Bot API server is by following the [build instructions generator](https://tdlib.github.io/telegram-bot-api/build.html?os=Linux) provided by Telegram.**

> > More options can be found [in the repo of the Bot API server](https://github.com/tdlib/telegram-bot-api#installation).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> More options can be found [Bot API server's repository](https://github.com/tdlib/telegram-bot-api#installation).
```
